---
title: "MFEM 3.2 Released"
categories: release
---

[Version 3.2](https://mfem.org/download/) of MFEM, a lightweight, general, scalable C++ library for finite element methods, is now available.

The goal of MFEM is to enable high-performance scalable finite element discretization research and application development. It has many features, including:

- 2D and 3D, arbitrary order H1, H(curl), H(div), L2, NURBS elements.
- Parallel version scalable to hundreds of thousands of MPI cores.
- Conforming/nonconforming adaptive mesh refinement (AMR), including anisotropic refinement, derefinement and parallel load balancing.
- Galerkin, mixed, isogeometric, discontinuous Galerkin, hybridized, and DPG discretizations.
- Support for triangular, quadrilateral, tetrahedral and hexahedral elements, including arbitrary order curvilinear meshes.
- Scalable algebraic multigrid, time integrators, and eigensolvers.
- Lightweight interactive OpenGL visualization with the MFEM-based [GLVis](https://glvis.org) tool.

Some of the new additions in version 3.2 are:

- Dynamic AMR with parallel load balancing, derefinement of non-conforming meshes.
- Tensor-based high-performance finite element operator assembly and (matrix-free) evaluation.
- Support for discontinuous Galerkin and hybridization methods on parallel non-conforming meshes.
- Support for Gmsh and CUBIT meshes.
- Secure socket communications in class socketstream based on GnuTLS.
- Four new serial and parallel example codes.

MFEM is being developed in CASC, LLNL and is freely available under LGPL 2.1.

For more details, see the [interactive documentation](https://mfem.org/examples) and the full [CHANGELOG](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mfem/mfem/master/CHANGELOG).
