---
title: "New Repo: AMM"
categories: new-repo
---

[AMM](https://github.com/LLNL/AMM), which stands for Adaptive Multilinear Meshes, is a new framework to represent piecewise multilinear volumetric data using mixed-precision adaptive meshes. AMM is designed to reduce in-memory and on-disk data footprint using a spatial hierarchy with "rectangular cuboidal" cells. AMM also supports mixed-precision representation of function values in byte-sized increments. The current version provides several examples of data streams that can be selected through command line. For details on AMM's data structure and representation, see the accompanying [publication](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9751449), which won the [Best Paper Award](https://computing.llnl.gov/about/newsroom/casc-team-wins-best-paper-visualization-symposium) at the 2022 PacificVis Symposium. The abstract follows:

> Adaptive representations are increasingly indispensable for reducing the in-memory and on-disk footprints of large-scale data. Usual solutions are designed broadly along two themes: reducing data precision, e.g., through compression, or adapting data resolution, e.g., using spatial hierarchies. Recent research suggests that combining the two approaches, i.e., adapting both resolution and precision simultaneously, can offer significant gains over using them individually. However, there currently exist no practical solutions to creating and evaluating such representations at scale. In this work, we present a new resolution-precision-adaptive representation to support hybrid data reduction schemes and offer an interface to existing tools and algorithms. Through novelties in spatial hierarchy, our representation, Adaptive Multilinear Meshes (AMM), provides considerable reduction in the mesh size. AMM creates a piecewise multilinear representation of uniformly sampled scalar data and can selectively relax or enforce constraints on conformity, continuity, and coverage, delivering a flexible adaptive representation. AMM also supports representing the function using mixed-precision values to further the achievable gains in data reduction. We describe a practical approach to creating AMM incrementally using arbitrary orderings of data and demonstrate AMM on six types of resolution and precision datastreams. By interfacing with state-of-the-art rendering tools through VTK, we demonstrate the practical and computational advantages of our representation for visualization techniques. With an open-source release of our tool to create AMM, we make such evaluation of data reduction accessible to the community, which we hope will foster new opportunities and future data reduction schemes.
