---
title: "The Flux Operator"
categories: story
---

Vanessa Sochat and Daniel Milroy of LLNL, along with co-authors Aldo Culquicondor and Antonio Ojea of Google, have written ["The Flux Operator"](https://f1000research.com/articles/13-203/v1) for _F1000Research_. The paper, which is currently awaiting peer review, has the following abstract:

> Converged computing is an emerging area of computing that brings together the best of both worlds for high performance computing (HPC) and cloud-native communities. The economic influence of cloud computing and the need for workflow portability, flexibility, and manageability are driving this emergence. Navigating the uncharted territory and building an effective space for both HPC and cloud require collaborative technological development and research. In this work, we focus on developing components for the converged workload manager, the central component of batch workflows running in any environment. From the cloud we base our work on Kubernetes, the de facto standard batch workload orchestrator. From HPC the orchestrator counterpart is Flux Framework, a fully hierarchical resource management and graph-based scheduler with a modular architecture that supports sophisticated scheduling and job management. Bringing these managers together consists of implementing Flux inside of Kubernetes, enabling hierarchical resource management and scheduling that scales without burdening the Kubernetes scheduler. This paper introduces the Flux Operator—an on-demand HPC workload manager deployed in Kubernetes. Our work describes design decisions, mapping components between environments, and experimental features. We perform experiments that compare application performance when deployed by the Flux Operator and the MPI Operator and present the results. Finally, we review remaining challenges and describe our vision of the future for improved technological innovation and collaboration through converged computing.
